.TH MGARD 1
.SH NAME
mgard \- MultiGrid Adaptive Reduction of Data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fBmgard compress \fB\-\-datatype\~\fIfloat\fR|\fIdouble \fB\-\-shape\~\fIlist \fB\-\-smoothness\~\fIs \fB\-\-tolerance\~\fIτ \fB\-\-input\~\fIfilename \fB\-\-output\~\fIfilename
.br
\fBmgard decompress \fB\-\-input\~\fIfilename \fB\-\-output\~\fIfilename
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmgard\fR is an error-bounded lossy compressor for scientific data.
It supports multidimensional arrays of floating-point numbers.
The user indirectly controls the compression level by setting an absolute error tolerance.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-datatype\~\fIfloat\fR|\fIdouble
Type of the data to be compressed.
Use \fIfloat\fR for single precision (C++ type \fBfloat\fR) and \fIdouble\fR for double precision (C++ type \fBdouble\fR).
.TP
\fB\-\-shape\~\fIlist
Dimensions of the array, given as an 'x'-delimited list.
.TP
\fB\-\-smoothness\~\fIs
Index of the norm in which to control the compression error.
When \fIs\fR = \fB'inf'\fR, the supremum norm is used.
When \fIs\fR = \fB0\fR, the L² norm is used.
Increasing \fIs\fR from \fB0\fR places an increasing emphasis on the high-frequency components of the data.
Conversely, decreasing \fIs\fR from \fB0\fR places an increasing emphasis on the low-frequency components of the data.
.TP
\fB\-\-tolerance\~\fIτ
Absolute error tolerance in the norm specified by the \fB--smoothness\fR argument.
.TP
\fB\-\-input\~\fIfilename
File from which to read the input data.
The \fBcompress\fR command will read a floating-point array (the original data) from \fIfilename\fR.
The \fBdecompress\fR command will read a compressed blob (the output of an earlier \fBmgard compress\fR call) from \fIfilename\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-output\~\fIfilename
File to which to write the output data.
The \fBcompress\fR command will write a compressed blob to \fIfilename\fR.
The \fBdecompress\fR command will write a floating-point array (the decompressed data) to \fIfilename\fR.
.SH EXAMPLE
This example assumes that the size of a \fBfloat\fR is 4 bytes.
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fR$ \fBdd bs=4 count=20000 if=/dev/zero of=data.dat
\fR$ \fBmgard compress --datatype float --shape 100x200 --smoothness 0 --tolerance 0.1 --input data.dat --output data.mgard\fR
\fR$ \fBmgard decompress --input data.mgard --output decompressed.dat
\fR$ \fBdu --bytes data.dat data.mgard decompressed.dat
\fR80000   data.dat
5632    data.mgard
80000   decompressed.dat
.fi
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
More information can be found at \fBmgard\fR's website:
.RS
.nf
https://github.com/CODARcode/MGARD
.fi
.RE
